>> Congress doubling
down on UFO legislation.
First the House, now the
Senate is demanding answers,
going back decades.
>> Congress is continuing
to say to the DoD
and to the intelligence
community, we want action.
>> This is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Members of Congress, not pleased
with the lackluster response
to last year's UFO-related
legislation, which
called for sweeping
changes and oversight
to the reporting
of UFO activity,
have just passed even
stronger language
in the Intelligence
Authorization Act for 2023.
Mirroring the House
legislation, the Senate
would also create a secure
system for reporting UAPs,
as well as loosen the
restrictions on or release
people from
non-disclosure agreements,
and calls for a deep dive into
how UAP-related activities were
handled by the government,
dating back to 1947.
So what makes this
bill so groundbreaking?
Nick Pope served with the
UK's Ministry of Defense
covering UAP activity.
>> We now have some really
strong language in the draft
Intelligence Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2023.
The bottom line is that Congress
is continuing to say to the DoD
and to the
intelligence community,
we want action on the UAP issue.
And they are clearly
not letting it go.
And as I say, the
language is robust.
They are articulating
a number of must-haves
here, which we've
not seen before.
>> What are these not seen
before must-haves included
in this bill?
>> One of the key provisions
is going to be a strengthening
of the collection methodology
and the science plan.
They're separate
but related factors.
And obviously, half the equation
is, if you see something,
say something.
We're still not getting
all the reports.
There's still some stigma,
though that is lessening.
But the science plan
comes in because you
can have all the
reports you want,
but if they're not then
subsequently investigated
in a proper way,
it's meaningless.
One of the absolute key pieces,
which is completely new,
is, you'll remember when the
Congressional hearing took
place back in May, one of
the representatives asked
about the 1967 Malmstrom
missile shutdown case.
And there was a
lot of blank looks
and looking at each
other, and, well,
we don't really have
anything on that.
And I think there was a
sense that, hey, look, DoD
and the intelligence
community is trying
to pretend that
this is a story that
started in 2004 with the
USS Nimitz, and it's not.
This is a phenomenon
with a 75-year backstory.
And what the new
language says is,
we want to hear some
of that backstory,
because what they say is
that the General Accounting
Office must go back and
review all holdings, all
the information, written,
oral, whatever they've
got since 1947, which is
a clear nod to Roswell,
amongst other things.
>> What should we look out
for as this legislation moves
through Congress?
>> Don't get too sidetracked
by the House version,
the Senate version, the
Intelligence Authorization,
or the NDAA.
Keep an eye on the NDAA.
I mean, that's always the big
flagship piece of legislation.
The Senate wording in the
Intelligence Authorization Act
is strong.
We'll see-- the only
danger is that it
gets watered down a little.
See what goes into the
final version of the NDAA
and watch for other
left field developments.
It's not like this is
happening in isolation.
>> The legislation could be
passed as early as October
or after the midterm
elections in November.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.